Welcome, brothers and sisters.
Here are some highlights
from this month’s program.
We’ll discuss the many ways
that prayer can help us resist temptations.
For example, we’ll see how prayer
helped Narciso leave behind
practices that conflicted
with Bible principles.
Last year, millions were delighted to receive
the revised New World Translation in Spanish.
We’ll go behind the scenes
and see what it took to produce
this translation of God’s Word.
Among Jehovah’s most endearing qualities
is his willingness to forgive.
Our new music video
reminds us that with Jehovah’s help,
we too can forgive others.
This is JW Broadcasting®.
This month, we’re going to discuss the theme
“Pray Continually,
So That You May Not Enter Into Temptation.”
Those words of Jesus
are recorded at Matthew 26:41.
In this discussion,
we’ll answer three important questions:
(1) Why did Jesus pray?
(2) What temptations did he face?
and (3) What lessons can we learn
from Jesus’ example?
Let’s start by reading that verse together.
That’s Matthew 26:41:
“Keep on the watch and pray continually,
“so that you may not enter into temptation.
“The spirit, of course,
is eager [or, “willing,” ftn.],
but the flesh is weak.”
Why did Jesus pray?
Jesus uttered these words
on the final night before his execution.
No doubt this was the most difficult evening
that Jesus had ever faced.
The surrounding verses tell us
that “he began to feel grieved
and to be greatly troubled.”
It’s hard for us to comprehend fully
the stress and pressure
Jesus was facing on that night.
He knew that Satan was about to throw
everything he could at him.
Jesus also knew that he’d soon die
an agonizing death.
But something else
was even harder for him to handle.
He realized
that he was about to be falsely charged
and convicted of the despicable crime
of blasphemy against Jehovah’s holy name.
The study note on Matthew 26:39 says:
“Jesus no doubt felt great concern
“over the reproach that his death
“as one charged with blasphemy and sedition
“could bring on God,
“moving him to pray
that this ‘cup’ pass away from him.”
In the face of all that pressure,
would Jesus remain faithful until death?
The lives of countless people
hung in the balance.
Even more important,
his Father’s reputation was involved.
Under all that intense emotional stress,
what did Jesus do?
He prayed, not just once,
but three times!
Notice how Luke describes what happened,
as recorded at Luke 22:44:
“But he was in such agony
“that he kept praying more earnestly;
“and his sweat became as drops of blood
falling to the ground.”
What’s the lesson for us?
Well, think about it.
Jesus knew Satan well.
Jesus had observed from heaven
all the temptations that Satan uses
in his efforts to ensnare God’s servants.
Yet, Jesus did not feel
that he could easily handle
whatever “the Tempter”
might place before him.
So this is a clear lesson for us:
If the perfect Son of God
felt the need to pray
for divine help and strength,
how much more so should we.
How appropriate then is the admonition:
“Pray continually,
so that you may not enter into temptation.”
But what does it mean
to “enter into temptation”?
The Watchtower  back in 1951 explained:
“We ourselves under Satan’s influence
“create the temptation
by thinking how nice it would be
“to do or to have something
contrary to God’s will,
“and then not dismissing
the desire created by this improper thinking,
“but considering it more and more.
“In this way we are drawn out
“and led to ignore God’s counsel and warning.
We enter into temptation.”
Prayer helps us when we face temptation.
It helps us to focus
on what Jehovah wants us to do
and to ask him for the strength
not to enter into temptation.
Our second question:
What temptations did Jesus face
while here on earth?
We probably immediately think
of the occasion shortly after Jesus’ baptism
when he was tempted three times by the Devil.
Let’s quickly summarize
those three temptations.
First, Jesus was asked
to turn stones into bread
at a time when he was extremely hungry.
Basically, Satan appealed
to Jesus’ desire for food.
However, Jesus immediately rejected
the temptation
to satisfy that desire
in an inappropriate way.
Second, Satan challenged Jesus
to throw himself off the temple battlement.
Jesus rejected this temptation as well.
Why?
Because he knew
that such a spectacular display
would amount
to a prideful testing of Jehovah.
Finally,
Satan offered Jesus
“all the kingdoms of the world
and their glory.”
But at what price?
Satan demanded that Jesus offer him in return
an act of worship.
What was Jesus’ answer?
He flatly refused, saying: “Go away, Satan!”
Have you had to face similar temptations?
Well, you might quickly answer:
‘No one has asked me
to turn stones into bread
‘or to jump off a tall building.
‘And certainly no one has offered me
the rulership
of all the governments in the world!’
But notice, please, we said “similar,”
not “the same.”
So have you faced similar temptations?
No doubt you have.
Most of us have faced temptations
involving fleshly desires.
It may have been temptations
to commit immorality
or temptations that appealed to greed
or an unbalanced concern
about material things.
Other temptations may have appealed
to our pride or tested our humility
or our desire to impress others.
And who of us hasn’t been tempted
by opportunities
offered to us by Satan’s world
for wealth, power, or position?
No matter what temptation
comes our way, though,
remember Jesus’ words:
“Pray continually,
so that you may not enter into temptation.”
But were those the only temptations
that Jesus faced?
No.
How do we know?
Well, notice Luke’s words
found at Luke 4:13:
“So the Devil,
having finished all the temptation,
departed from him
until another convenient time.”
Did Satan ever come back again
to tempt Jesus?
He must have because of what we’re told
at Hebrews 4:15.
Let’s read that:
“For we do not have a high priest
“who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses,
“but we have one who has been tested
“in all respects as we have,
but without sin.”
Have you ever wondered
what other “convenient time”
Satan selected to test Jesus?
Well, let’s consider some possibilities.
One example occurred in 32 C.E.,
about two and a half years
after the initial temptations.
Please turn to John 6:15:
“Then Jesus, knowing
that they were about to come
“and seize him to make him king,
withdrew again to the mountain all alone.”
This seems like a similar temptation
to what Jesus had already faced.
But this time, the setting was different.
Satan didn’t directly offer
the kingship to Jesus.
There was no demand
for Jesus to worship the Devil.
Rather, those following Jesus
wanted to make him their king.
This temptation was going to be
by popular demand.
How did Jesus react?
Well, even before they could make their move,
Jesus withdrew from them to a mountain,
just by himself.
And what did he do on the mountain?
We find the answer in a detail
added in the parallel account
recorded by Matthew.
Let’s read it together.
It’s Matthew 14:23:
“After sending the crowds away,
he went up on the mountain
by himself to pray.”
Yes, Jesus went there
not just to avoid the crowds
but to pray.
The third question:
What lessons can we learn
from Jesus’ example?
Even though we may have passed a test,
or avoided entering into temptation,
in the past,
we shouldn’t be surprised
if a similar temptation may arise again
but in a different form or situation
and at a convenient time.
For whom?
For Satan, not us.
Another occasion occurred
when Jesus and his apostles
were in the vicinity of Mount Hermon,
near Caesarea Philippi.
Jesus’ apostles had just acknowledged him
as “the Christ, the Son of the living God.”
So Jesus took the opportunity
to expand their thinking further.
Notice what’s recorded
at Matthew 16:21:
“From that time forward,
“Jesus began explaining to his disciples
“that he must go to Jerusalem
“and suffer many things
“from the elders and chief priests
and scribes and be killed,
and on the third day be raised up.”
What was the reaction of his apostles
to this information?
Let’s read on in verse 22:
“At this Peter took him aside
“and began to rebuke him, saying:
“‘Be kind to yourself, Lord;
you will not have this happen
to you at all.’”
Although these words were uttered
by a close friend,
Jesus immediately recognized
that they reflected Satan’s wishes,
not Jehovah’s.
So he firmly responded:
“Get behind me, Satan!
“You are a stumbling block to me,
“because you think, not God’s thoughts,
but those of men.”
Although this account
doesn’t specifically refer
to Jesus praying at that time,
we know that Jesus was a man of prayer.
The apostle Paul tells us at Hebrews 5:7:
“During his life on earth,
“Christ offered up
supplications and also petitions,
with strong outcries and tears.”
So no doubt those prayers helped Jesus
to focus on the reason why he came to earth.
That clear focus helped him to see
that Peter’s misguided counsel
would only help to further
the Tempter’s cause.
What does this teach us?
This shows us that temptations
don’t always come
from those who are Jehovah’s enemies.
Some who are close to us
may even serve Satan’s ends unintentionally,
as was the case with Peter.
It could be an employer,
a workmate, a schoolmate,
a friend, a relative, a parent,
a brother, or a marriage mate.
Let’s examine another example
of how Satan returned to Jesus.
This time, it was
by means of the religious leaders.
They attacked Jesus verbally,
misquoting Scripture
and hurling senseless accusations at him.
But Jesus understood what they were up to
and frankly told them:
“You are from your father the Devil.”
We shouldn’t be surprised
if apostates and other opposers
use similar tactics today.
Just as Jesus was accused of blasphemy
and political sedition,
so too God’s people
have been labeled as “extremists”
and have been the victims
of all sorts of false accusations.
Like Jesus, we remember
who really is behind all these attacks
—Satan, the great Tempter!
What will help us to avoid the temptation
of giving up because of discouragement?
How can we successfully handle
all these types of attacks?
Paul tells us what to do.
We read at Ephesians 6:11:
“Put on the complete suit of armor from God
“so that you may be able to stand firm
against the crafty acts of the Devil.”
After speaking about the importance
of putting on the spiritual suit of armor,
Paul goes on to say in verse 18
that this should be done together
“with every form of prayer
“and supplication
[as we] carry on prayer
on every occasion in spirit.”
So, what have we learned from our discussion?
It seems that Satan didn’t try again
to tempt Jesus directly,
but he was persistent.
He kept coming back in different guises.
He used others to give Jesus wrong advice,
to oppose and ridicule him,
as well as to try to make him a king.
Perhaps we’ve rejected
some serious temptations in the past,
but remember, Satan doesn’t give up on us
just because he failed in the past.
At a time convenient to him,
he may come back to tempt us
with something completely different
or the same temptation
dressed up in a different form.
So, what’s the key
to not entering into temptation?
We need to remember and apply
Jesus’ admonition:
“Pray continually,
so that you may not enter into temptation.”
So far, we’ve discussed
how we could “enter into temptation”
to do something wrong.
However, we may also be tempted
not to do something right.
For example,
although we know
that we should forgive another person
for something they have done against us,
perhaps we may enter into the temptation
of avoiding that person
and not forgiving them,
even though
there may be a basis for doing so.
What can help us in such a situation?
Again, the answer is:
Pray for Jehovah’s help.
This is the theme
of our music video for this month.
It involves a very painful situation
between a mother and a daughter.
Let’s see the role of prayer
in starting to resolve
what might seem to be an impossible problem.
I’ve got this grudge.
I’m holding it in.
But it’s so heavy;
it pulls me down.
I wish I could
turn this around.
I understand
the need to forgive,
But it’s not easy
if it’s not my fault.
These thoughts
bring forgiveness to a halt.
It’s right about now
that I have to pray.
Jehovah saw what happened;
he knows my pain.
But most of all
he gives me
Strength to let it go.
No, I can’t do this
on my own.
I pray, “Jehovah, please help me;
Help me forgive freely.”
He’ll help me to reflect
The way he forgives, the way he forgets.
I pray, “Jehovah, please help me;
Help me forgive freely.”
Forgive freely.
Trying my best
to let it all go,
But at times,
it comes back to mind.
I wish I could put
all this behind.
I realize
that I can’t hold on.
Forgiveness means
you don’t bring it back up.
This only gets me
in a rut.
It’s right about now
that I have to pray.
Jehovah saw what happened;
he knows my pain.
But most of all
he gives me
Strength to let it go.
No, I can’t do this
on my own.
I pray, “Jehovah, please help me;
Help me forgive freely.”
He’ll help me to reflect
The way he forgives, the way he forgets.
I pray, “Jehovah, please help me;
Help me forgive freely.”
Forgive freely.
I’m sure this video touched our hearts.
What a difficult situation!
And, of course,
such situations are not resolved overnight.
Some wounds take a long time to heal,
but it’s possible
to start the process of healing
by trying to forgive.
But we can’t do it alone.
Remember what our song
beautifully emphasized.
Keep praying, “Jehovah, please help me;
help me forgive freely.”
In our next video,
we’ll see another example
of how prayer helps us today.
Narciso Garcia worked hard to bring his life
in harmony with Bible principles.
But it wasn’t easy.
Notice how he dealt with temptations
similar to those Jesus faced.
I sweated blood
to train myself in martial arts.
So when I joined a big competition,
I won the fight.
My life changed.
I became the bodyguard
of a well-known politician
and taught martial arts
to some popular celebrities.
My students and my boss
and his family
—they all became part of my life.
But I was still looking for something.
One day, some Jehovah’s Witnesses
came by and gave me a tract.
I was surprised
and really happy to learn God’s name.
I thought, ‘This could be
what I’ve been looking for.’
So I accepted a Bible study,
and I realized that I owed everything to God.
When I attended my first meeting,
I saw how humble and caring
the Witnesses were.
But my neighbors made fun of me.
I wanted to beat them because I knew I could.
I was ashamed that I couldn’t do anything
to defend Jehovah’s name.
Then one morning before going to the meeting,
for the first time,
I approached Jehovah in prayer,
asking him to give me courage.
I couldn’t do it alone.
After that prayer,
I felt that Jehovah really strengthened me,
and I humbly told the neighbors
that I was going to the Kingdom Hall.
Since then,
I’ve always prayed to Jehovah
when making decisions.
I needed to leave martial arts.
I had to quit my job as a bodyguard
and stop carrying guns.
Doing his will wasn’t always easy,
but Jehovah gave me the courage to do so.
My boss asked me to visit him.
He offered me a new car
and double my salary.
His offer was very tempting.
So I went to the washroom and intensely
prayed again to Jehovah for courage.
“Jehovah, help me, please,” I said.
“I can’t do this on my own.”
In the end, I chose Jehovah.
Jehovah is more precious to me
than anything this world could offer.
I told him,
“Sorry, but I am not accepting your offer.”
It felt like losing a family in death.
Eventually, I got baptized.
I realized that it didn’t matter
what people thought about me.
It’s how Jehovah sees me that matters.
Now I am very grateful
to be with the brothers in serving Jehovah.
I am now serving as a regular pioneer.
And this is the life
that I had been looking for.
How was Narciso tempted?
When his neighbors made fun of him
for going to the Kingdom Hall,
he thought about using these
and going back to using martial arts.
Yes, ridicule tested Narciso’s humility.
But through prayer,
he was able to speak calmly
and confidently with his neighbors.
Narciso’s boss tempted him
with a new car and a raise.
What did Narciso do?
He immediately went to a quiet place
and prayed intensely.
Jehovah gave him the courage
to make the right decision.
When we face similar temptations,
we can be confident that through prayer,
Jehovah will help us to do the right thing.
One way Jehovah responds to prayer
is by directing us to the Scriptures.
There we find
wonderful examples of faithful servants
who overcame all sorts of challenges.
In the following dramatization,
let’s see what we can learn
from the apostle Peter.
After working unassigned territory,
I made up my mind to put in my application
for regular pioneering.
However, things were going
really well at work.
Is this the right time
to make a drastic change?
A new foreign-language group
is being formed in our congregation.
There’s no way I’m joining.
Do you know how difficult it is?
Maybe this isn’t right for me.
The culture and language are so different.
What do you think?
With our youngest now
in his own assignment,
maybe we could serve
where the need is greater,
like we did before the kids.
But we’re not that energetic couple anymore.
Maybe it’s too much.
I shared my concerns about pioneering
with someone who’s been doing it
for a long time.
He reminded me
of the apostle Peter’s example.
He was a fisherman by trade,
but Jesus knew
he could be so much more.
Peter hadn’t caught anything all night,
but with Jesus next to him,
things would be different.
But Peter felt overwhelmed.
Simon,
stop being afraid.
From now on you will be catching men alive.
The ministry would be his life’s work.
The apostle Peter faced a situation
similar to mine in Syrian Antioch.
Initially, he associated freely
with Gentile Christians.
But then some from the congregation
in Jerusalem visited,
and his fear of their opinion
closed his heart.
Jehovah used
the apostle Paul to help Peter put aside
his fear of man.
So I prayed to Jehovah
to help me open my heart wide.
We turned to the wisdom
of older ones,
and they reminded us of Peter’s ministry.
He may have been our age when he moved
to where the need was greater in Babylon.
They must have had concerns like ours.
Could they make the trip?
adapt to a different place?
But they trusted in Jehovah
to help them succeed.
We can do the same.
If we overcome our doubts
and open our hearts wide,
we can conquer fear
and receive Jehovah’s blessing
to the full.
Peter was like us.
He loved Jehovah.
He loved his brothers.
He also had doubts and fears
that sometimes held him back.
But Peter relied on Jehovah to conquer fear.
We can do the same.
Our prayers are not limited to asking Jehovah
for help with our concerns and our needs.
We can also ask Jehovah to help others.
We’ll see that in action in our next video.
I pray for my brothers and sisters every day
because I know Jehovah
is the Hearer of prayer.
Ever since our baptism,
we as a family
were fully engaged in Christian activities.
It was a busy yet fulfilling life.
I really loved preaching.
I enjoyed conducting Bible studies
and talking to others about the truth.
At one point,
I was the only elder in the congregation.
I tried to make
shepherding calls on everyone,
but I just did not have the time,
so I developed the habit
of praying for them
many times during the day.
I would mention them individually by name.
I wanted Jehovah to protect
his precious sheep from Satan’s attacks.
Some time later,
my wife fell seriously ill.
After being hospitalized for a while,
I decided to take care of her at home.
I needed to step down from pioneering.
Kuniko served Jehovah faithfully
until her death.
After a while, I became sick as well.
One morning,
I felt especially bad and couldn’t move.
Fortunately, I managed to survive somehow,
but now I’m confined to a wheelchair.
I can no longer walk
in the ministry as I used to
or handle congregation responsibilities.
I need help
to change clothes and take a shower.
I get really depressed
when I think of the times
when I was able to move around freely.
But Jehovah
never forgets the love we’ve shown.
He is pleased to see us doing our very best
in whatever circumstances we are in.
I am limited in what I can do,
but I can still pray.
In my prayers,
I mention
the names of those in my congregation
and my personal friends.
I make a list of their names
so as not to forget anyone.
Through jw.org®,
I read about the brothers
in Russia being arrested
and the situation in Eritrea,
so I make sure to include them in my prayers.
The Governing Body and its helpers
and those in full-time service
also need Jehovah’s support.
Jehovah is without a doubt
the Hearer of prayer.
When I was the only elder in the congregation
and when my wife was sick in bed,
he listened to my prayers.
So I am confident
that the prayers that I offer
will help my fellow friends.
Now I do what I can in service,
such as witnessing to caregivers.
When I meet those
whom I have not seen for a long time
and tell them “I’ve been praying for you,”
they often tell me
how it has really helped them.
Some even shed tears out of gratitude.
I feel happy too.
Although I’m getting
physically weaker every day,
my prayers are becoming
more and more meaningful.
I want to cherish
this precious gift of prayer
that Jehovah has given us
as long as I live.
Takeshi could easily
dwell on all the things he can’t do.
Instead, he focuses
on his brothers and sisters.
He prays for them every day.
And they’re not generic prayers.
He makes lists
so that he doesn’t miss anyone,
and he goes to jw.org®
to learn about our brothers in need.
Why does he make this effort?
Takeshi said,
“I know [that] Jehovah
is the Hearer of prayer.”
Whether we’re dealing
with the effects of old age and illness
or with persecution and unrest,
we face a common enemy, Satan the Devil.
How does Jehovah
help us win this spiritual warfare?
Brother Harold Corkern
explains how in this Bethel morning worship.
Our text highlights the fact
that we are at war with Satan.
War is defined
as “a state of hostility
“accompanied by actions
“to conquer or to destroy
those viewed as the enemy.”
And the context
of our text today at 1 Peter 5:8
talks about the type of enemy we have
—“a roaring lion,
seeking to devour someone.”
And that expression “roaring” denotes
“the howl of a beast in fierce hunger.”
So we have a real enemy.
And that’s why the words of Jesus
are so meaningful for us
when he gave the model prayer.
He said at Matthew 6:13:
“Do not bring us into temptation,
“but deliver
[or, the footnote, “rescue”] us
from the wicked one.”
Now, other Bible translations,
like the King James Version
or the Revised Standard Version,
use an expression like,
“Deliver us from evil.”
Or the Contemporary English Version says:
“Protect us from evil.”
But that doesn’t convey
the real fierceness of a real enemy, does it?
It’s more generic.
And so Jesus knew the Devil was real,
and he is a real enemy.
And the Devil has no remorse.
He’s fierce.
He has no pity.
He will take a person and,
with his traps and lures,
get him to do something
bad in Jehovah’s eyes,
and then the person is overcome with guilt.
And then, like a fierce enemy,
the Devil comes along and stomps on him
and makes him feel worse
because he caved in and sinned.
So how do we deal
with such a powerful enemy?
Well, in war, there are soldiers.
So let’s use an expression
that the apostle Paul used
to describe our situation.
Let’s open our Bibles, please,
to the book of 2 Timothy.
In 2 Timothy chapter 2,
we’re going to read verses 3 and 4
and talk for a few moments
about our being soldiers.
Second Timothy 2:3:
“As a fine soldier of Christ Jesus,
“take your part in suffering adversity.
“No man serving as a soldier
“involves himself
in the commercial businesses of life,
in order to gain the approval
of the one who enrolled him as a soldier.”
We become soldiers of Christ
when we accept Jehovah’s arrangements
for salvation through Christ Jesus
and we dedicate our lives to him unreservedly
for our entire life.
We become a soldier and, like a soldier,
we know that it’s not going to be easy.
There are going to be hardships and trials.
And yet, a fine soldier
—his main objective is to stay
loyal to his commanding officers
and to those who are giving instructions.
And likewise we know
it’s not going to be easy.
It’s not easy, but we have chosen
to become a soldier of Christ.
Now, a soldier,
like this loyal one being described,
is far different from a mercenary.
A mercenary is one
who hires himself out to fight,
but he may not have any devotion,
really, to the cause.
He’s a hired man,
and he’s doing it for the reward only
or for something else that he may gain.
But we’re not mercenaries.
We’re those with godly devotion,
wholly devoted to Jehovah
and loyal to Christ
so that we can be fine soldiers,
loyal and true.
Now, another aspect of soldiers
is that they are identified
by their distinctive uniforms
or their particular fighting equipment.
And that way, it helps to identify
who’s the friend and who’s the foe
in the middle of the battle.
Their appearance makes that possible.
Well, today,
there is a clear difference, isn’t there,
between the soldiers of Satan
and the soldiers of Christ?
There’s great enmity,
but there’s a sharp contrast
in appearance and attitude and disposition
and motivation and conduct.
And that’s why when we think about that,
we think about the contrast
between “the works of the flesh”
described in Galatians chapter 5
and those who have
the fruitage of God’s spirit.
There is such a strong distinction
between “one serving God
and one not serving him.”
And that’s why, too,
we think about the type of armor we bear.
Ephesians chapter 6 says:
“Put on the complete suit of armor from God.”
So our very armor is from God.
We do not use the tactics
and the methods of the Devil,
but we are clearly identified
as a soldier of Christ.
And there can be no gray area here;
we’re either on one side
or the other, correct?
For example, suppose that you’re a soldier,
and you’re on guard duty, and it’s evening,
and you see someone approaching,
and you cry out:
“Halt! Who goes there?
Friend or foe?”
and you hear back, “I’m both.”
There’s an enemy.
You can’t be on both sides.
Now, what is another aspect
of being a good soldier in this fight?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to Philippians chapter 1,
Philippians chapter 1,
and we get to the concept of unity
and working closely together in peace,
because an army needs to be unified.
Philippians 1:27 says:
“Only behave in a manner
worthy of the good news about the Christ,
“so that whether I come
and see you or I am absent,
“I may hear about you and learn
“that you are standing firm in one spirit,
“with one soul
[and the footnote, or “with one accord”],
“striving side by side
for the faith of the good news,
“and in no way being
frightened by your opponents.
“This very thing is a proof
of destruction for them,
but of salvation for you;
and this is from God.”
Well, we have this matter of unity
—don’t we?—
shoulder to shoulder, side by side.
And yet, one of the tactics of the Devil
is to get us divided and disjointed
and fighting among ourselves.
To turn the enemy on itself
is a very effective war strategy.
Even Jehovah used that
—remember?—
against his enemies.
At 2 Chronicles 20:20-23,
there was the attack
“of Ammon, Moab,
and the mountainous region of Seir”
against Judah.
What did Jehovah do?
He confused them.
They struck down each other;
they helped destroy one another.
And the Devil, in a very sinister way,
uses that same approach.
How?
Well, if he can get us
to not get along with each other
and turn on one another,
then that’s a very effective tactic.
In fact, we remember the expression
at Ephesians 4:26, 27 about getting along:
“Be wrathful, but do not sin;
“do not let the sun set
while you are still angry;
do not give the Devil an opportunity.”
So when he sees discord and disunity,
he can really amplify that.
So we have to remember
who our real enemies are.
Now, our brothers may disappoint us;
they may frustrate us;
they may hurt us at times
because of imperfections.
But they’re not the enemy.
The Devil and his hordes
—they are the enemies.
So we don’t get to fighting
with the wrong person.
We keep in mind
that our brothers are with us.
And, in this connection
(we just read it
in that scripture in Philippians),
it talked about not being afraid.
And do you remember
something about being afraid
when it related
to a soldier in Israel’s army?
Deuteronomy 20:8 says:
“The officers should also ask the people,
“‘Who is fearful and fainthearted?
“‘He should return to his house,
so that he may not cause
his brothers to lose heart as he has.’”
Well, we do have an effect on each other.
Can you imagine being in Joshua’s army,
getting ready to battle,
and to your left is a soldier?
And as you’re about ready
to leave for battle,
he says to you:
“We’re going to die.
“We’re not going to come back.
Say goodbye to your family.
This is it.”
Or he may say,
“I’m not sure Joshua
has Jehovah’s backing like Moses did.”
All of that would be terrible.
And so anyone
in that category was to go home
because they would have
an effect on others.
How grateful, though, we are
that we have positive, courageous brothers
who trust in Jehovah,
examples in the Bible,
and also modern-day examples,
just like our brothers in Russia!
Well, as soldiers in this battle,
we’re ‘not ignorant of Satan’s designs.’
And yet, he studies us very carefully,
and he knows our weaknesses.
The September 1, 1988, Watchtower
had an article
“Stand Firm Against Satan’s Machinations,”
and in that, it said the Devil
knows what our weaknesses are.
But do we?
If we don’t identify them
and then correct them,
we will be defenseless at times.
But it takes honesty and humility
and an earnest desire
to address that which is bad.
Otherwise, we become a victim.
So we need to ask:
‘What are my weaknesses?
Do I identify them?
Do I work on them?’
And yet, with Jehovah’s help,
we can come off victorious in this battle.
First Peter 5:10 says
that ‘Jehovah will finish our training;
he will make us firm;
he will make us strong.’
So with Jehovah’s help, we can succeed.
So may we all continue
as fine soldiers of Christ,
trusting in Jehovah,
and win the battle
against the enemy—the Devil.
As Brother Corkern mentioned,
Satan has no pity.
He’ll try everything
to lure us to sin against Jehovah.
Last year, the revised New World Translation
in Spanish was released.
This was exciting news
for millions of our brothers and sisters.
Since Spanish is the most widely spoken
language among Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this took special effort.
Enjoy the following report.
Soon after the Governing Body released
the revised English edition
of the New World Translation,
they decided to revise the Spanish edition.
They wanted it to be a modern,
understandable translation
for the entire Spanish-speaking world.
Spanish is the mother tongue
of around 480 million people.
And it is also
the most widely spoken language
among Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This translation project
would be a unique challenge.
It eventually took
four and a half years to complete.
Why did it take so long?
Apart from the translation process itself,
the work was complicated
by the wide geographic range
of these Hispanic countries
and their different cultures.
This diversity meant
that in different countries
the same Spanish word
could mean different things.
In other cases,
the word may be unknown
in certain areas
or even sound objectionable to some.
To overcome these difficulties,
the translators used 100 outside readers
from many different countries
to review the translated text progressively.
These readers were of different ages,
cultures, and backgrounds.
These outside readers regularly received
chapters of the Bible electronically,
and then they introduced
their suggested revisions.
The translation teams
took note of all their recommendations,
and in some cases,
they also sent them specific inquiries.
Every verse was checked
by 130 different people.
Naturally, all of this took time.
The work was finished in the spring of 2019.
But then another challenge arose.
We needed to print millions of Bibles
to satisfy the demand
of the Spanish-speaking field.
This was a huge job
for our printing presses
in the United States and Japan.
Despite working night and day,
the task would take a long time.
And naturally, everyone wanted
to have the Bible right away.
Right at the Madrid international convention,
the Governing Body decided to release
the Bible in digital format.
This was several months
before all the Bibles could be printed.
The highlight
of the Friday morning convention program
was when Brother Lösch
presented the newly revised Bible.
But there was another surprise!
Since at the convention
most brothers and sisters
had their phones and tablets with them,
they were able to immediately
download the revised Bible.
How was that possible?
Over 500 portable Wi-Fi devices
were distributed
among each of the 11 convention venues
in Spain that were
tied in with the Madrid stadium.
During the lunch break on Friday,
practically everyone
in attendance could download
the revised Spanish edition
of the New World Translation.
More than 1,200 volunteers were trained
to give technical support
to those who needed it.
In this way, the brothers started
to use the revised translation
right away during the afternoon program.
We laughed and cried with joy.
We knew it was a gift from Jehovah,
which he was giving us at that moment.
And also, we felt so happy
because we’d been waiting a long time for it.
What I like most about this revision
is that it’s very easy to understand.
Sometimes I think,
‘But was this what we had before?’
It seems that it reaches
my heart much quicker.
As you use it,
you realize that many scriptures
have been adjusted
and that the faithful slave
has worked very hard
to make it easier to understand.
Without a doubt, this revised edition
of the New World Translation
is a wonderful gift
for all our Spanish-speaking brothers.
The Word of God has power,
and this will be a powerful tool
to help many people get to know Jehovah.
This month’s theme was
“Pray Continually,
So That You May Not Enter Into Temptation.”
By trusting in prayer,
Narciso made major changes
in his life and resisted temptations
that tested his humility.
The apostle Peter’s example showed us
how to overcome fear
so that we can show more love
for Jehovah and our brothers.
Rather than dwell on his limitations,
Takeshi finds joy in praying
for his brothers and sisters every day.
And the song “Forgive Freely”
reminds us that we can imitate
Jehovah’s quality of forgiveness
to heal the pain of being hurt
by someone we love.
Before we conclude,
let’s visit our brothers and sisters
in the Tierra del Fuego
province of Argentina.
Tierra del Fuego
is a group of islands
off the southernmost tip
of the South American mainland.
The main island rises to mountain glaciers
and peaks of nearly 8,000 feet,
or 2,400 meters.
Here daylight
varies greatly throughout the year
—from about 17 hours during summer
to some 7 hours during winter.
But no matter how much sunlight there is,
there can be wind, ice,
and snow every season of the year.
Three congregations are in the city
of Ushuaia on the main island.
To attend assemblies, the brothers
have to cross a mountain range
—a trip of about 125 miles,
or 200 kilometers.
Sometimes snow and ice
make the roads impassable.
Our brothers are out in the ministry
no matter what the weather has in store.
In the winter, the sun
doesn’t rise high enough to be seen
above the mountains in some parts of Ushuaia.
When days are short,
the brothers adapt
and start preaching later
to make the best use of sunlight.
The brothers have organized a campaign
to preach in rural communities
and on remote islands,
such as Navarino Island,
across the Beagle Channel.
Recently, some made
a special effort to learn English
so that a good witness
can be given to the many tourists who visit.
There are over 300 publishers
and some 47 regular pioneers
in Ushuaia’s three congregations.
They’re conducting 286 Bible studies.
Our brothers and sisters
in Ushuaia, Tierra del Fuego,
send their warm love and greetings!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.